Implementation of jobManager (#312)
kyma-project/hydroform: parallel-install/pkg/jobmanager/README.md

# `jobManager` Package

> The `jobManager` implements a `job` interface which is used to enable a clean automated Kyma deployment in regards of configuring the cluster and the components/resources/etc. of Kyma. The terms "Deployment" and "Deploy" are used in the context of installing Kyma on an empty cluster, or to upgrade Kyma from an older to a newer version.

Author: mhm... I think cluster and components and resources is enough

> This package, called `jobManager`, implements a `job` interface which is used to enable a clean automated Kyma deployment in regards of configuring the cluster and the components/resources/etc. of Kyma. The terms "Deployment" and "Deploy" are used in the context of installing Kyma on an empty cluster, or to upgrade Kyma from an older to a newer version.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `jobManager` implements a `job` interface which is used to enable a clean automated Kyma deployment in regards of configuring the cluster and the components/resources/etc. of Kyma. The terms "Deployment" and "Deploy" are used in the context of installing Kyma on an empty cluster, or to upgrade Kyma from an older to a newer version.
```

## Workflow / General mechanism

> ### Requirements of this package

Reviewer: Do you want to call it Requirements or rather call it as Features ? As this is not a proposal any more.

> - Only support single linear upgrade: A &#8594; B && B &#8594; C; NOT A &#8594; C. This is due to the fact that Kyma only supports single linear upgrades.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Supports only single linear upgrade: A &#8594; B && B &#8594; C; NOT A &#8594; C. This is due to the fact that Kyma only supports single linear upgrades.
```

- Jobs themself cover the checks to determine if they should be triggered. &#8594; They should be triggered if the cluster is not in the wanted state.

> - Deprecation of jobs is annotated.

Author: Up until now we have a simple in-line comment when it will be deprecated

> - Deprecation of jobs is annotated.

Reviewer 2: then I'd suggest 
```suggestion
- Announce deprecation of jobs, for example, as in-line comment.
```

> - Inside the job we need "smart checks" to determine whether the job should run its main logic, because implementing an interface that covers all possible scenarios would be overengineering. &#8594; The cluster state, not the target Kyma version is decisive whether logic of jobs should run.

Reviewer: This needs a bit rewording difficult to understand

Author: Will be rewriten

> - The jobManager only supports Kyma `deploy` and not `uninstall`, to prevent that developers misuse jobs to clean up dirty left-overs from `kyma uninstall`.

Author: Good remark! It is `delete`

- When the deploy of Kyma fails, the global post-jobs do not run.
- When the deploy of a component fails, the component-based post-jobs do not run.
- Jobs do run async to each other.

> - CancelContext are being propagated to give developers the opportunity to cancel deploy.

Author: Since the CancelContext is an context object and not a file, it will stay like thsis

    - Check whether the component is installed on the cluster or must be newly installed; and only trigger if it must be installed.
    - It is possible to trigger jobs before and after a deployment of a component.
  - __Global / Component-independent__:
    - Always trigger the job when installing or upgrading Kyma.
    - It is to trigger jobs before and after the deployment of Kyma.
    - Call component-independent jobs `global` jobs to stick to the naming convention of our helm charts.

### How does it work?

This package registers, manages, and triggers certain jobs to have a fully-automated installation or migration. This package has two (hash)maps to manage the workload: One for `pre`-jobs and one for `post`-jobs. In the (hash)maps, the key is the name of the component the jobs belong to, and the value is a slice of the jobs.

Furthermore, the `jobManager` package has a `duration` variable for benchmarking, which will be fetched at the end of a Kyma deployment.

Jobs are implemented within the `jobManager` package in `go`-files, one for each component, using the specific `job` interface. Then, the implemented interface is registered using `register(job)` in the same file.

> To implement the `job` interface, the newly created jobs must implement the `execute(*config.Config, kubernetes.Interface)` function, which takes the installation config and a kubernetes interface as input, so that the jobs can interact with the cluster. The return value must be an error. Additionally, the `when()` function must be implemented, which returns the component the job is bound to and whether it should run pre or post the deployment. The `identify()` function also needs to be implemented to have a unique identifier for each job. If the active solution for tagging jobs as deprecated is chosen, then the `deprecate` function also must be implemented - more in the next section.

Author: Tbh I don't know; Until know Icke wants to stick to the simple clean solution, maybe at some point int the future, an adaption has to be made

The jobManager is used by the `deployment` package and in the `engine` package . At the hooks, during the deployment phase, each hook only has to check if the key for the wanted component is present in the pre- or post-map. If it's present, the jobs in the map are trigged, if not, nothing must be done.

Retries for the jobs are not handled by the jobManager. Retries should be implemented by the jobs themselves, because it's more flexible and the interface is easy to manage. Also, the check if the logic of the job should be executed stays inside of the job, and is not implemented by the jobManager.

### Deprecation of Jobs

> At this point, we will stick to the passiv solution, we will may switch to the active solution in the future. If no deprecation version is decided or not necessary, should also be documented.

Reviewer 2: "will" or "may" ?

```suggestion
At this point, we stick to the passiv solution; we may switch to the active solution in the future. The deprecation version must be documented; alternatively, the fact that there is no specific deprecation version or that deprecation is unnecessary.
```
But doesn't the 2nd sentence actually belong to the bullet list of requirements below the following Passive/Acvice headlines?

Author: I can also add it there if you want to

Passive:
- Tag (as a comment above the register call) at which defined Kyma version the jobs should be deprecated.

Active:
- Go-Build-Tags cannot be used for this use case.
- Add `deprecation` function to job-interface, which returns at which Kyma version the job should be deprecated. Before the job is executed, the deprecation function is called to check whether it is already deprecated. If deprecated, an Error should be thrown to block the CI.

### Workflow of the jobManager
<img src="./pictures/migration-logic-diagram.png?raw=true">

## Trade-Offs

> The jobs of this package cannot handle every situation that may come up in the cluster, because we do not know what the setup/usage of the customer's cluster looks like - for example, which provisioner is used, and especially regarding the access rights of the user  who is deploying Kyma. Thus, an additional migration guide will be needed in the future, as before. Let us demonstrate this on the `increaseLoggingPvcSize job`:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The jobs of this package cannot handle every situation that may come up in the cluster, because we do not know what the setup/usage of the customer's cluster looks like - for example, which provisioner is used, and especially regarding the access rights of the user who is deploying Kyma. Thus, an additional migration guide will be needed in the future, as before. Let us demonstrate this on the `increaseLoggingPvcSize job`:
```

- The option `allowVolumeExpansion` of the respective `PVC` must be set to `true`. If it's not, it must be changed. To do this, the provided kubeconfig must have admin rights, and the hypervisor must allow it:

>    - __k3d:__ Using a local cluster to deploy Kyma on the sample job fails, since k3d is missing a plugin to expand existing volumes. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
   - __k3d:__ Using a local cluster to deploy Kyma on the sample job fails, because k3d is missing a plugin to expand existing volumes. 
```

Is k3d _missing_ it (wants to have it) or rather _lacking_ it (doesn't have it)? Or should we simply say "k3d doesn't have a plugin..."

Author: It is lacking this plugin, and as far as I know they do not have anything planed to add it.

      ```
      Ignoring the PVC: didn't find a plugin capable of expanding the volume; waiting for an external controller to process this PVC.
      ```

>    - __Azure:__  When Kyma wants to be deployed on an Azure cluster, the disk expand is only allowed on an unattached disk. Due to some GitHub Issues, this feature will be added in the future.

Reviewer 2: Does Kyma really _want_ to be deployed somewhere?

```suggestion
   - __Azure:__  When Kyma is to be deployed on an Azure cluster, the disk expand is only allowed on an unattached disk. Due to some GitHub Issues, this feature will be added in the future.
```

      ```console

>       error expanding volume "kyma-system/storage-logging-loki-0" of plugin "kubernetes.io/azure-disk": azureDisk - disk resize is only supported on Unattached disk, current disk state: Attached, already attached to /subscriptions/68266e60-bb03-40e0-935d-531fac39f8c1/resourceGroups/shoot--berlin--jh-02/providers/Microsoft.Compute/virtualMachines/shoot--berlin--jh-02-worker-jz1n6-z1-6d9c5-cvn2b

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
      error expanding volume "kyma-system/storage-logging-loki-0" of plugin "kubernetes.io/azure-disk": azureDisk - disk resize is only supported on unattached disk. Current disk state: Attached; already attached to /subscriptions/68266e60-bb03-40e0-935d-531fac39f8c1/resourceGroups/shoot--berlin--jh-02/providers/Microsoft.Compute/virtualMachines/shoot--berlin--jh-02-worker-jz1n6-z1-6d9c5-cvn2b
```

Author: I do not think we should change the official error message output

Reviewer 2: Agreed, wasn't sure where it's from
